OSDOCS-20558: adds MCP multi-protocol support (#118534)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/con-mcp-gateway-multi-protocol-support.adoc

The new stateless protocol has the following cloud-native pattern:

* Round-robin load balancing: Because any container instance can handle any incoming request, you can horizontally scale your stateless MCP servers behind a plain round-robin load balancer.
* Serverless deployment: You can now run MCP servers as serverless functions on cloud platforms because there is no need for a persistent connection.
* Transparent failover: If a container crashes, the load balancer routes the next request to a healthy peer with zero session disruption.
* No Redis sessions: Because persistency and sticky sessions are no longer needed, you can remove Redis session storage. Database writes and reads on every single call are not required.

Clients negotiate their preferred version automatically.

[id="con-mcp-gateway-multi-protocol-version-detection_{context}"]
== How version detection works

When a standard MCP client connects, the {mcpg} detects the MCP protocol version by using the following sequence:

* Client request: Sends a `server/discover` request specifying version `2026-07-28`.
* Gateway response: Returns the combined list of all supported upstream versions.

> * Version match: The {mcpg} connects using the newest version that both sides support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Version match: The client connects using the a version that both sides support.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// *mcp_gateway_config/mcp-gateway-multi-protocol-support.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: CONCEPT
[id="con-mcp-gateway-multi-protocol-support_{context}"]
= Understand multi-protocol support

[role="_abstract"]
The {mcpg} can serve both the `2025-11-25`, stateful, and `2026-07-28`, stateless, Model Context Protocol (MCP) protocol versions from a single instance.

The new stateless protocol has the following cloud-native pattern:

* Round-robin load balancing: Because any container instance can handle any incoming request, you can horizontally scale your stateless MCP servers behind a plain round-robin load balancer.
* Serverless deployment: You can now run MCP servers as serverless functions on cloud platforms because there is no need for a persistent connection.
* Transparent failover: If a container crashes, the load balancer routes the next request to a healthy peer with zero session disruption.
* No Redis sessions: Because persistency and sticky sessions are no longer needed, you can remove Redis session storage. Database writes and reads on every single call are not required.

> Clients negotiate their preferred version automatically

Reviewer 2: A closing period missing

[id="con-mcp-gateway-multi-protocol-version-detection_{context}"]
== How version detection works

When a standard MCP client connects, the {mcpg} detects the MCP protocol version by using the following sequence:

* The client sends a `server/discover` request with a `MCP-Protocol-Version: 2026-07-28` header.
* The {mcpg} responds with `supportedVersions`, which is the union of all upstream MCP server protocol versions.

> * The {mcpg} checks this against its connected upstream servers and picks the most recent supported version they both share. If the client and the {mcpg} share a common version, {mcpg} uses the most recent one.

Reviewer 2: tbh this bullet point is a bit confusing to me. @maleck13 might be able to suggest better wording. My understanding is that it is client that selects the protocol version to be used - either by `Mcp-Protocol-Version` header, or by reaching out to '/mcp/stateful' endpoint, or probably there is a mechanism in SDK that client uses under the hood to pick the most recent protocol version that's supported by both the client and the MCP Gateway.
